In this demo,
I'll show you how to do a local kubernetes setup
using minikube.
This is the kubernetes minikube GitHub URL.
You'll find all the GitHub releases
under releases right here.
So here you can download manually
the latest release of minikube.
They have versions for macOS
for windows and for Linux.
The easiest way is to use a package manager.
So if you go back to the minikube main URL,
then below you have read me
and in this read me,
you're gonna find a getting started guide.
Using this getting started guide,
you can install minikube for Linux, macOS or Windows.
And I would recommend you to follow this guide
to install minikube on your system
because the guide splits out different options
and depending on what OS
and the version of OS you're running,
you might have to go with a different option.
So I'm going to show you this demo on macOS
and a macOS is pretty straightforward,
but if you're Windows
I would just follow this guide to get it installed.
So let's quickly go over the different options.
Let's say that you're on Linux,
you can just download and install minikube
in use local, bin using this command.
You will still have to install
the command line utility kubectl,
which you can download from the kubernetes website.
In my procedure document,
you will find the URLs that you can use to download
kubectl.
So this for Linux, then for macros, you have two options.
You can use brew, which is easiest way.
It will automatically install
the cube CTL command default for you,
or it can use direct also using the curl command
and extracted in user local bin minikube.
And then you have the windows option.
And with windows, you can download the minikube installer,
which will install it for you.
Or you can use a package manager,
the chocolatey package manager.
If you don't have this yet,
you can download this package manager from here
and then run this command
and it will install minikube for you.
So the difficulty that will arise
is that minikube will start a VM to run kubernetes in.
So you cannot, and that is important.
You cannot run minikube within a VM.
It will spin up a VM itself.
That means that you will have to choose a hypervisor.
So on Windows and also on mic,
you have different hypervisors.
So on Windows, you can either use hyper-V or a virtualbox,
and then using these commands here,
you can see which hypervisor is installed on your system.
So if you have a look here, for example,
hyper-V will only work on windows 10
Enterprise Pro or Education.
If you have the home edition,
you will not be able to use hyper-V.
You should use virtualBox.
So then you download virtualBox
and then you use minikube start VM driver, virtual box,
and using this command, you can make it a default driver.
So in general, home edition, virtualBox
otherwise you can use hyper-V
and with hyper-V you still might have to enable it
as the administrator.
So whether you will be able to run minikube,
all depends on hypervisor.
If you have troubles, launching minikube,
it'll probably be a hypervisor issue.
There are alternatives you can use for example,
Docker for windows, Docker, for mac,
if you have issues starting minikube.
I also recommend to try minikube first,
because it's such an easy way to get Kubernetes
running on your system.
So to summarize, getting started guide right here
to install minikube.
And then if you're not using a package manager,
download Kubectl install kubectl, for Linux
or mac or for windows.
So for example, if you're on windows,
you can download the latest version from this link.
I also have in my procedure,
documents links to the kubectl version.
If you already have Docker for windows installed,
then this will also have a kubectl version.
Probably best to just type kubectl
already in a PowerShell or a CMD on windows
to see if you have kubectl available.
Make sure that if you download the latest version
of minikube, that you also have a new version of kubectl
which means if you already have kubectl installed,
you probably want to upgrade that one.
Otherwise you can get some errors
when you're trying to connect to your cluster.
So let's try to set minikube up on my machine.
So I'll just use brew
because that's the easiest brew install, minikube.
So if you are a macOS is going to be pretty easy
to install minikube.
It will also install the kubectl for me.
So it will have minikube and the kubectl.
Once this is done, and this command is exactly the same
whether you are all windows, Mac, or Linux,
you run minikube start.
And if you are on windows,
you might have to add the VM driver here.
If you don't add,
VM driver is going to automatically select one for you.
So here it has automatically selected the hyper key driver
and alternatives is virtualbox.
So for me, it's going to use a hyperkit,
but I could also use a virtualbox.
Hyperkit is preferred over virtualbox on mac.
So this is then going to set up hyperkits.
So I need to give my root password of the machine.
And then it's going to download the latest VM image.
Now it's creating a new VM
and that's why we cannot run Minikube within our own VM.
We need to run it on our whole system,
so if your whole system is windows,
then you need to run it on your windows machine,
because it will create a VM virtual machine itself.
So all our kubernetes processes will run in this VM
that minikube is creating.
So now it is preparing kubernetes one 17 zero
on Docker, 19 zero three five.
So because we are using kubernetes one 17,
you also want to make sure that your kubectl version
is also on one 17.
So if I just opened another window,
kubectl version,
and I can also see that my kubectl
is version one 17 one 17 zero.
So this one will definitely be compatible
with the communities that I'm running within minikube.
So then once it starts,
the VM is going to use kubeadm to set up my cluster.
I also have at the end of this course,
some kubeadm lectures,
where we use kubeadm manually to serve communities
on a couple of VMs within the cloud.
So if you want to do it completely manual
on a virtual machine, you can use kubeadm for that.
Then it's pulling the images, launching communities,
waiting for cluster to come online and now it is done.
minikube also says that it has configured kubectl
to use minikube,
so that basically means that it created a conflict for us,
where in this conflict
It is in our home directory in dot kube config.
So minikube set this up for us.
It set up the certificate, the server,
so now we can connect to this server using kubecdl
to execute kubernetes commands.
So let's have a look again at the documentation,
which has some example commands
that we can run to test whether our cluster is running.
So here we have the link examples,
minikube start that we did.
If you want, you can run a minikube dashboard
to see a dashboard we're gonna skip that for now.
I have some lectures later on dashboard,
and then you can do kubectl create deployment,
hello-mini cube, which is going to create a deployment.
Using the echo server image
its just a test image to see whether it's working.
And then we go to expose it this service as a NodePort,
I will explain later on what NodePort means.
Now we're just going to copy paste these commands,
see whether our cluster is working.
And then later on, I will explain in depth,
what it all means?
kubectl create deployment hello-minikube,
deployment is created.
So now it created a service so they can reach
my hello minikube deployment,
and because this is now all created
in a Coobernetti's within the cluster.
I now also need to enter a command to know the IP address
and a port where I can connect on to reach this service.
So minikube service hello-minikube,
and this one's pretty quick,
but it actually opened a browser window
and it immediately went to the correct URL.
So let's have a look at the terminal first.
So we have the namespace default namespace name,
hello-mini cube.
And then the URL that we have.
So this is the NodePort that has been opened
on this IP address of my virtual machine.
So you see here server 192.168.64.8.8443
which is the Kubernetes API server.
Now it creates another port.
It opened another port,
the NotePort where then my service is reachable on.
So then it says
opening service default/hello-minikube in a default browser.
Then it opens within my browser, this URL.
And this is exactly what the echo serve is returning.
The echo server just returned some information
about the request.
So we have the client values
server views and the headers received.
There was nobody in the request.
When you are finished with a lab
and you want to stop minikube,
you can just run minikube stop,
and this will then stop the minikube VM.
If you did something wrong
and you want to completely destroy your VM,
you can use minikube delete,
and this will then delete the VM completely,
and then when you can do minikube start,
it will start a new VM.
You don't have to delete it all the time.
Only when something major and drunk and you cannot recover
or completely finished with minikube,
You wanna make sure that you don't have
the VM installed anymore.
Then you can use minikube delete to delete a cluster
and delete the profile from your kube config.
So that's it for minikube.
minikube is a very powerful tool
that you can use to test with kubernetes
and deploy on Kubernetes using your local machine.
It might be a bit tricky to set up for a first time,
especially on windows, but once it is set up,
it is pretty easy to use.